PUBL~ 4

             ~* TEX>~

                    Filing Receipt

Filed Date - 2026-03-12 01:39:25 PM
Control Number - 58481
Item Number - 122
PROJECT NO. 58481

RULEMAKING TO IMPLEMENT        §  PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION

LARGE LOAD INTERCONNECTION     §

STANDARDS UNDER PURA §37.0561  §  OF TEXAS

                    PROPOSAL FOR PUBLICATION OF NEW 16 TAC §25.194

The Public Utility Commission of Texas (commission) proposes new 16 Texas Administrative
Code (TAC) §25.194 relating to Large Load Interconnection Standards. This proposed rule will
implement Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA) §37.0561, as enacted by Senate Bill (SB) 6
during the Texas 89th Regular Legislative Session. The new rule will implement new PURA
§37.0561, which requires the commission to establish standards for interconnecting large load
customers in the ERCOT power region in a manner designed to support business development in
this state while minimizing the potential for stranded infrastructure costs and maintaining system
reliability. The new rule will require a large load customer, before the large load customer can be
included in an ERCOT interconnection study, to execute an intermediate agreement that requires
the large load customer to provide certain disclosures and post financial security in the amount of
$100,000 per megawatt (MW). The new rule will also require a large load customer, not later than
30 days after ERCOT completes the interconnection study, to execute an interconnection
agreement that requires the large load customer to update its disclosures, pay a non-refundable
interconnection fee in the amount of $100,000 per MW; post financial security for significant
equipment or services; pay contribution in aid of construction for direct interconnection costs; and
post financial security for system upgrades. Additionally, the new rule will set forth the
consequences of withdrawing all or a portion of requested peak demand or contracted peak demand
and the consequences of failing to satisfy a milestone in the large load customer' s schedule for
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 2 of 30

phased energization. Finally, the new rule will set forth the terms for refund of financial security
for a large load customer that energizes.

Growth Impact Statement
The agency provides the following governmental growth impact statement for the proposed rule,
as required by Texas Government Code §2001.0221. The agency has determined that for each
year of the first five years that the proposed rule is in effect, the following statements will apply:
(1) the proposed rule will not create a government program and will not eliminate a government
program;
(2) implementation of the proposed rule will not require the creation of new employee positions
and will not require the elimination of existing employee positions;
(3) implementation ofthe proposed rule will not require an increase and will not require a decrease
in future legislative appropriations to the agency;
(4) the proposed rule will not require an increase and will not require a decrease in fees paid to the

agency;

(5) the proposed rule will not create a new regulation;
(6) the proposed rule will not expand, limit, or repeal an existing regulation;
(7) the proposed rule will not change the number of individuals subject to the rule's applicability;

and

(8) the proposed rule will not affect this state's economy.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 3 of 30

Fiscal Impact on Small and Micro-Businesses and Rural Communities
There is no adverse economic effect anticipated for small businesses, micro-businesses, or rural
communities as a result of implementing the proposed rule. Accordingly, no economic impact
statement or regulatory flexibility analysis is required under Texas Government Code
§2006.002(c).

Takings Impact Analysis
The commission has determined that the proposed rule will not be a taking of private property as
defined in chapter 2007 of the Texas Government Code.

Fiscal Impact on State and Local Government
Jessie Horn, Sr. Counsel, Rules and Projects Division, has determined that for the first five-year
period the proposed rule is in effect, there will be no fiscal implications for the state or for units of
local government under Texas Government Code §2001.024(a)(4) as a result of enforcing or
administering the sections.

Public Benefits
Ms. Horn has determined that for each year of the first five years the proposed section is in effect
the public benefit anticipated as a result of enforcing the section will be increased transparency
and support of business development. There will be a probable economic cost to persons required
to comply with the rule under Texas Government Code §2001.024(a)(5) because PURA §37.0561,
which the rule implements, requires large load customers to make financial commitments.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 4 of 30

Local Employment Impact Statement
For each year of the first five years the proposed section is in effect, there should be no effect on
a local economy; therefore, no local employment impact statement is required under Texas
Government Code §2001.022.

Costs to Regulated Persons
Texas Government Code §2001.0045(b) does not apply to this rulemaking because the commission
is expressly excluded under subsection §2001.0045(c)(7).

Public Hearing
Commission staff will conduct a public hearing on this rulemaking if requested in accordance with
Texas Government Code §2001.029. The request for a public hearing must be received by April
17, 2026. If a request for public hearing is received, commission staff will file in this project a
notice of hearing.

Public Comments
Interested persons may file comments electronically through the interchange on the commission's
website or by submitting a paper copy to Central Records, Public Utility Commission of Texas,
1701 North Congress Avenue, P.O. Box 13326, Austin, Texas 78711-3326. Initial comments must
be filed by April 17, 2026. Comments should be organized in a manner consistent with the
organization ofthe proposed rules. The commission invites specific comments regarding the costs
associated with, and benefits that will be gained by, implementation of the proposed rule. The
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 5 of 30

commission will consider the costs and benefits in deciding whether to modify the proposed rules
on adoption. All comments should refer to Project Number 58481.

Each set of comments should include a standalone executive summary as the last page of the
filing. This executive summary must be clearly labeled with the submitting entity's name
and should include a bulleted list covering each substantive recommendation made in the
comments.

Statutory Authority
The amendment is proposed under Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA) §14.001, which
grants the commission the general power to regulate and supervise the business of each public
utility within its jurisdiction and to do anything specifically designated or implied by this title
that is necessary and convenient to the exercise of that power and jurisdiction; §14.002, which
authorizes the commission to adopt and enforce rules reasonably required in the exercise of its
powers and jurisdiction; §35.004, which requires the commission to ensure that a large load
customer who is subject to the standards adopted under PURA- §37.0561 contributes to the
recovery of the interconnecting electric utility's costs to interconnect the large load customer to
the utility's system; §37.0561, which requires the commission to establish standards for
interconnecting large load customers in the ERCOT power region in a manner designed to
support business development in this state while minimizing the potential for stranded
infrastructure costs and maintaining system reliability; and §39.151, which grants the
commission authority to oversee ERCOT.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 6 of 30

Cross Reference to Statute: Public Utility Regulatory Act §14.002; §14.002; §35.004;
§37.0561; §39.151.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 7 of 30

§25.194. Large Load Interconnection Standards.
(a) Purpose and Scope. This section sets forth the standards and criteria for an electric utility,

         a municipally owned utility, and electric cooperative to interconnect a large load customer
         to the ERCOT system. Nothing in this section limits the authority of a municipally owned
         utility or an electric cooperative to impose electric service requirements for large load
         customers on their systems in addition to the standards adopted under this section.

(b) Applicability. This section applies to a large load customer that seeks:
         (1) a new interconnection that is equal to or exceeds 75 megawatts (MW);
         (2) an expanded interconnection that equals or exceeds 75 MW for the first time; and
         (3) an expanded interconnection that exceeds 75 MW by 75 MW or more.

(c) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, have the following
         meanings unless the context indicates otherwise:
         (1) Backup generating facilities -- Generation facilities or energy storage facilities
                  that are not capable of operating, or are not configured to operate, in parallel with
                   the ERCOT system and cannot export energy to the ERCOT system.
         (2) Competitively sensitive information -- Competitively sensitive information
                  includes exact site locations, such as parcel identifiers or property boundaries;
                  commercial terms, such as pricing or internal development prioritization;
                  proprietary architectural, operational, or compute-deployment strategies; and
                  financing structures. Competitively sensitive information does not include the

                 identity of a large load customer; general site location, such as load zone; requested
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 8 of 30

         or contracted peak demand; timing of energization; or whether an interconnection
         request is associated with the same applicant or affiliated entities.
(3) Contracted peak demand -- The total non-coincident peak demand that a large
         load customer requests that an interconnecting DSP or an interconnecting TSP
         serve at a site as stated interconnection agreement.
(4) Interconnecting distribution service provider (DSP) -- The electric utility,
         municipally owned utility, or electric cooperative that is certificated to provide
         retail electric delivery service at the location in which the large load customer seeks
         to interconnect.
(5) Interconnecting transmission service provider (TSP) -- The electric utility,
         municipally owned utility, or electric cooperative that owns and operates the
         facilities necessary to interconnect the large load customer to the ERCOT system.
(6) Interconnection agreement -- An agreement that is executed by a large load
         customer, the interconnecting DSP, and, if different from the interconnecting DSP,
         the interconnecting TSP after completion of the interconnection study and that, at
         a minimum, satisfies subsection (f) of this section.
(7) Interconnection study -- The set of studies that are required by ERCOT before a
         large load customer may be interconnected.
(8) Intermediate agreement -- An agreement that is executed by a large load
         customer, the interconnecting DSP, and, if different from the interconnecting DSP,
         the interconnecting TSP before the interconnection study are initiated and that, at a
         minimum, satisfies subsection (d) ofthis section.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 9 of 30

(9) Large load customer -- An entity requesting a new or expanded interconnection
         where the customer's total expected non-coincident peak demand at a single site is
         equal to or exceeds 75 MW.

(10) Requested peak demand -- The total non-coincident peak demand that a large load
         customer requests, prior to executing an interconnection agreement, that an
         interconnecting DSP or an interconnecting TSP serve at a site.

(d) Intermediate agreement. Before a large load interconnection request is submitted to
         ERCOT for study, the large load customer must execute an intermediate agreement with
         the interconnecting DSP and, if different from the interconnecting DSP, the interconnecting
         TSP. If the interconnecting DSP and the interconnecting TSP are different entities, the
         intermediate agreement must specifically identify each entity' s responsibilities under this
         section, including which entity will accept the study fee and financial security from the
         large load customer. The intermediate agreement must meet the requirements of this
         subsection.
         (1) Site control. A large load customer must demonstrate site control for the proposed
                  load location through provision of one of the following property interests to the
                   interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP:
                   (A) a signed and executed lease agreement for one or more parcels of land
                           sufficient to accommodate the customer' s planned facilities at the proposed
                           load location for a duration of at least five years from the date the large load
                            customer is expected to reach the contracted peak demand;
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 10 of 30

          (B) a deed for one or more parcels of land sufficient to accommodate the
                  customer's planned facilities at the proposed load location; or

         (C) a signed and executed agreement with an option to purchase or lease one or
                  more parcels of land sufficient to accommodate the customer' s planned
                  facilities at the proposed location.

(2) Substantially similar interconnection request. A large load customer must
         disclose to the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP whether the
         customer is pursuing a substantially similar interconnection request for electric
         service, the approval of which would result in the customer materially changing,
         delaying, or withdrawing the interconnection request. A material change or delay
         includes a delay of one or more years to the proj ect' s proj ected date to realize its
         requested or contracted peak demand, a 20% or greater change in the requested or
         contracted peak demand, or a change in the location for the point of interconnection.
         (A) A large load customer that is pursuing a substantially similar
                  interconnection request for electric service the approval of which would
                  result in the customer materially changing, delaying, or withdrawing the
                  interconnection request must disclose the following information to the
                   interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP:
                   (i) the ERCOT-assigned serial number (i.e., the large load
                           interconnection number) for the substantially sirnilar
                           interconnection request, as applicable;
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 11 of 30

         (ii) the location, including the power region and, if in the ERCOT
                  region, the load zone, of the substantially similar interconnection

                 request;

       (iii) the non-coincident peak demand of the sub stantially similar

                  interconnection request;
         (iv) the anticipated timing of energization of the sub stantially similar

                  interconnection request; and
         (v) the interconnecting DSP and, if different from the interconnecting

                   DSP, the interconnecting TSP associated with the substantially
                  similar interconnection request.
(B) A large load customer that discloses a substantially similar interconnection
         request under this subsection may anonymize competitively sensitive
         information in its disclosure to the interconnecting DSP or the
         interconnecting TSP.
(C) An interconnecting DSP and an interconnecting TSP must not sell, share,
         or disclose information submitted to the interconnecting DSP or the
         interconnecting TSP under this subsection other than a disclosure to the
         commission or ERCOT.
(D) ERCOT may request and the large load customer must provide any
         competitively sensitive information ERCOT deems necessary to complete
         any analysis required as part ofthe interconnection process. ERCOT must
         treat disclosed competitively sensitive information as Protected Information
         under ERCOT protocols.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 12 of 30

(3) Site-related studies and engineering services. A large load customer must submit
         to the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP the large load customer' s
         plans, expected timing, and progress for site-related studies and engineering
         services required for project development before energization (e.g., geotechnical
          survey, water, wastewater, or gas). The submission must be accompanied by an
         attestation by an officer or official with binding authority over the large load
         customer stating that the information contained in the submission is complete and
         accurate at the time the attestation is signed. A large load customer must provide
         updates or progress reports to the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP
         when requested, but no more frequently than quarterly.

(4) State and local regulatory approvals. A large load customer must submit to the
         interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP the large load customer's plans,
         expected timing, and current progress for obtaining non-ministerial discretionary
         approvals from state and local regulatory authorities required for development
         before energization (e.g., water, air, or backup generation permits). The submission
         must be accompanied by an attestation by an officer or official with binding
         authority over the large load customer attesting that the information contained in
         the submission is complete and accurate at the time the attestation is signed. A
         large load customer must provide updates or progress reports to the interconnecting
         DSP or the interconnecting TSP when requested, but no more frequently than
         quarterly.

(5) Schedule for phased energization of contracted peak demand. A large load
         customer must disclose to the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP the
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 13 of 30

         expected schedule, including the quarter and year, for phased energization of the
         contracted peak demand expressed in MW, power factor (PF), and megavolt-
         ampere reactive (MVAr) units.
(6) Backup generating facilities. A large load customer must disclose to the
         interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP whether the customer plans to have
          on-site backup generating facilities. If the large load customer plans to have on-
         site backup generating facilities, the large load customer must also disclose the
         following information:
         (A) the number of backup generating units;
          (B) the nameplate capacity of each of the backup generating facilities;
         (C) the fuel source and operational characteristics of each of the backup

                  generating facilities, including any run hour limitations and any fuel storage
                  limitations under the existing environmental permits; and
          (D) how quickly each of the backup generating facilities can reach their full
                  capacity to serve the load.
(7) Power supply. A large load customer must disclose how it plans to procure power
         and whether the large load customer has on-site generation that will provide power
         exclusively to the large load customer.
(8) Controllable load. A large load customer must disclose whether it can be modeled
         as a controllable load resource, as the term is defined in ERCOT protocols, in
         ERCOT's study.
(9) Study fee. A large load customer must pay a study fee to the interconnecting DSP
         or the interconnecting TSP for the costs to conduct the interconnection study.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 14 of 30

(A) A large load customer with requested peak demand that is equal to or greater
         than 75MW and less than 250MW must pay a study fee not less than
         $100,000 to the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP for
         transmission studies performed by the interconnecting DSP, the
         interconnecting TSP, and ERCOT, as applicable.

(B) A large load customer with requested peak demand that is equal to or greater
         than 250 MW must pay a study fee not less than $300,000 to the
         interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP for transmission studies
         performed by the interconnecting DSP, the interconnecting TSP, and
         ERCOT, as applicable.

(C) Beginning in 2027, the commission will adjust the values under this
         subsection on January 1 every five years.
          (i) The annual adjustment will be proportional to the third quarter
                   percentage change in the national Consumer Price Index (CPI)
                   published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of
                   Labor Statistics.
          (ii) The executive director must designate a substitute index to be used
                   as a reference for adjustments if the CPI becomes unavailable.

(D) If the interconnecting DSP, the interconnecting TSP, and ERCOT's
         combined costs to conduct the interconnection study exceeds the applicable
         study fee, the large load customer must pay the actual costs to conduct the
         interconnection study.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 15 of 30

         (IE) The interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must remit payment
                   to ERCOT, on behalf of the large load customer, for ERCOT's costs to
                  conduct the interconnection study.

(10) Financial security on a dollar per MW basis. Financial security under this
         subsection is due at the time that the intermediate agreement is executed. A large
         load customer must post financial security with the interconnecting DSP or the
         interconnecting TSP in the amount of $50,000 per MW of the requested peak
         demand for new interconnection requests or of the incremental increase in the peak
         demand for expanded interconnection requests.
         (A) Beginning in 2027, the commission will adjust the $50,000 value on
                  January 1 every five years.
                    (i) The annual adjustment will be proportional to the third quarter
                             percentage change in the national Consumer Price Index (CPI)
                             published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of
                             Labor Statistics.
                    (ii) The executive director must designate a substitute index to be used
                             as a reference for adjustments if the CPI becomes unavailable.
         (C) The interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP may accept the
                  following forms of financial security:

                  (i) cash collateral;
                  (ii) corporate or parental guaranty, only if the corporation or parent

                              corporation has a credit rating equivalent of BBB-/Baa3 or higher
                             from Standard & Poor' s or Moody's; or
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 16 of 30

              (iii) a letter of credit issued by a major U. S. commercial bank, or a U. S.

                           branch office of a major foreign commercial bank, with a credit
                             rating of at least "A-" by Standard & Poor's or "A3" by Moody's
                             Investor Service.
          (D) If the large load customer provides a corporate or parental guaranty under
                   this subsection, the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP may
                  require the submission of financial records or statements to determine the
                  customer's financial stability.
         (IF,) Refund of financial security posted on a dollar per MW basis is subject to
                  subsection (g) ofthis section.
(11) Financial security for significant equipment or services. An interconnecting
         DSP and an interconnecting TSP must not procure equipment or services before a
         large load customer posts financial security to the interconnecting DSP or the
         interconnecting TSP in an amount equal to the interconnecting DSP and
         interconnecting TSP's estimated costs for equipment with a lead time of at least six
         months and services necessary to interconnect the large load customer.
         (A) A large load customer may elect to amend its intermediate agreement with
                   the interconnecting DSP and the interconnecting TSP to post financial
                  security for significant equipment or services prior to executing an
                  interconnection agreement.
         (B) An interconnecting DSP or an interconnecting TSP must apply any unused
                  study fee that the large load customer paid under an intermediate agreement
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 17 of 30

         to satisfy the financial security for significant equipment or services under
         this subsection.
(C) The interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP may accept the
         following forms of financial security for significant equipment or services:
         (i) cash collateral;
         (ii) corporate or parental guaranty, only if the corporation or parent

                    corporation has a credit rating equivalent of BBB-/Baa3 or higher
                   from Standard & Poor' s or Moody's; or

       (iii) a letter of credit issued by a major U. S. commercial bank, or a U. S.

                  branch office of a major foreign commercial bank, with a credit
                   rating of at least "A-" by Standard & Poor's or "A3" by Moody's
                   Investor Service.
(D) If the large load customer provides a corporate or parental guaranty under
         this subsection, the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP may
         require the submission of financial records or statements to determine the
         customer's financial stability.
(IF,) Refund of financial security posted for significant equipment or services is
         subject to subsections (g) through (i) of this section.

(e) Interconnection study. Not later than 60 days after an intermediate agreement is executed
         under subsection (d) of this section, the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP
         must coordinate with ERCOT to initiate an interconnection study.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 18 of 30

(1) The interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must notify the large load
         customer when the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP coordinates
         with ERCOT to initiate a interconnection study.

(2) The interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must notify the large load
         customer when the interconnection study commences and concludes.

(3) The interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must provide a large load
         customer timely information related to communications that the interconnecting
         DSP or the interconnecting TSP receives from ERCOT about the large load
         customer' s interconnection request.

(4) A large load customer that requests additional capacity following the initiation of
         the interconnection study must submit a new interconnection request to the
         interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP.

(f) Interconnection agreement. Not later than 30 days after completion of the
         interconnection study for a large load customer, the large load customer must execute an
         interconnection agreement with the interconnecting DSP and, if different from the
         interconnecting DSP, the interconnecting TSP. If the interconnecting DSP and the
         interconnecting TSP are different entities, the interconnection agreement must specifically
         identify each entity' s responsibilities under this section, including which entity will accept
         financial security and CIAC from the large load customer. The interconnection agreement
         must meet the requirements of this subsection. The interconnecting DSP or the
         interconnecting TSP must cancel the interconnection request and notify ERCOT of the
         cancellation if the large load customer fails to execute an interconnection agreement under
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 19 of 30

this subsection within 30 days of receipt of the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting
TSP' s notice to the large load customer that all necessary transmission studies as defined
in ERCOT protocols to interconnect the large load customer have been completed.
(1) Site control. A large load customer must demonstrate site control for the load

         location through provision of one of the following property interests to the
         interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP:
         (A) a signed and executed lease agreement for one or more parcels of land

                  sufficient to accommodate the customer' s planned facility at the proposed
                  load location for a duration of at least five years from the date that the large
                  load customer is expected to reach the contracted peak demand;
          (B) a deed for one or more parcels of land sufficient to accommodate the
                  customer's planned facility at the proposed load location; or
         (C) a signed and executed purchase and sales agreement.
(2) Substantially similar request. A large load customer must disclose to the
         interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP whether the customer is pursuing
         a substantially similar interconnection request for electric service, the approval of
         which would result in the customer materially changing, delaying, or withdrawing
         the interconnection request. A material change or delay includes a delay of one or
         more years to the proj ect' s proj ected date to realize its requested or contracted peak
         demand, a 20% or greater change in the requested or contracted peak demand, or a
         change in the location for the point of interconnection.
         (A) A large load customer that is pursuing a substantially similar
                  interconnection request for electric service, the approval of which would
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 20 of 30

         result in the customer materially changing, delaying, or withdrawing the
         interconnection request must disclose the following information to the
         interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP:
         (i) the ERCOT-assigned serial number (i.e., the large load

                  interconnection number) for the substantially sirnilar
                  interconnection request, as applicable;
         (ii) the location, including the power region and if in the ERCOT region
                  the load zone, of the substantially similar interconnection request;

       (iii) the non-coincident peak demand of the sub stantially similar

                  interconnection request;
         (iv) the anticipated timing of energization of the sub stantially similar

                  interconnection request; and
         (v) the interconnecting DSP and, if different from the interconnecting

                   DSP, the interconnecting TSP associated with the substantially
                  similar interconnection request.
(B) A large load customer that discloses a substantially similar interconnection
         request under this subsection may anonymize the competitively sensitive
         information in its disclosure to the interconnecting DSP or the
         interconnecting TSP.
(C) An interconnecting DSP and an interconnecting TSP must not sell, share,
         or disclose information submitted to the interconnecting DSP or the
         interconnecting TSP under this subsection other than a disclosure to the
         commission or ERCOT.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 21 of 30

         (D) ERCOT may request and the large load customer must provide any
                   competitively sensitive information ERCOT deems necessary to complete
                   any analysis required as part ofthe interconnection process. ERCOT must
                   treat disclosed competitively sensitive information as Protected Information
                   under ERCOT protocols.

(3) Site-related studies and engineering services. A large load customer must submit
         to the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP the large load customer' s
         plans, expected timing, and progress for site-related studies and engineering
         services required for project development before energization (e.g., geotechnical
          survey, water, wastewater, or gas). The submission must be accompanied by an
         attestation by an officer or official with binding authority over the large load
         customer attesting that the information contained in the submission is complete and
         accurate at the time the attestation is signed. A large load customer must provide
         updates or progress reports to the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP
         when requested, but no more frequently than quarterly.

(4) State and local regulatory approvals. A large load customer must submit to the
         interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP the large load customer's plans,
         expected timing, and current progress for obtaining non-ministerial discretionary
         approvals from state and local regulatory authorities required for development
         before energization (e.g., water, air, or backup generation permits). The submission
         must be accompanied by an attestation by an officer or official with binding
         authority over the large load customer attesting that the information contained in
         the submission is complete and accurate at the time the attestation is signed. A
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 22 of 30

         large load customer must provide updates or progress reports to the interconnecting
         DSP or the interconnecting TSP when requested, but no more frequently than
         quarterly.
(5) Schedule for phased energization of contracted peak demand. A large load
         customer must disclose to the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP the
         expected schedule, including the month and year, for phased energization of the
         contracted peak demand expressed in MW, PF, and MVAr units.
(6) Backup generating facilities. A large load customer must disclose to the
         interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP whether the customer plans to have
          on-site backup generating facilities. If the large load customer plans to have on-
         site backup generating facilities, the large load customer must also disclose the
         following information:
         (A) the number of backup generating facilities;
          (B) the nameplate capacity of each of the backup generating facilities;
         (C) the fuel source and operational characteristics of each of the backup

                  generating facilities, including any run hour limitations under the existing
                  environmental permits; and
          (D) how quickly each of the backup generating facilities can reach their full
                  capacity to serve the load.
(7) Non-refundable interconnection fee. A large load customer must pay an
         interconnection fee in the amount of $50,000 per MW of contracted peak demand.
         An interconnection fee under this subsection is non-refundable.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 23 of 30

         (A) An interconnecting DSP or an interconnecting TSP must draw on any
                  unused financial security that the large load customer posted under an
                  intermediate agreement to satisfy the interconnection fee under thi s
                  subsection.

         (B) An interconnection fee under this subsection must be paid to the
                   interconnecting TSP and applied by that TSP as an offset to the
                   interconnecting TSP's rate base in the earlier of the interconnecting TSP' s
                  next interim rate proceeding or comprehensive rate proceeding.

(8) Financial security for significant equipment or services. A large load customer
         must post financial security for significant equipment or services not later than the
         date that the interconnection agreement is executed if the interconnecting DSP or
         the interconnecting TSP needs to procure significant equipment or services to
         interconnect the large load customer. An interconnecting DSP and an
         interconnecting TSP must not procure equipment or services before a large load
         customer posts financial security to the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting
         TSP in an amount equal to the interconnecting DSP and interconnecting TSP' s
         estimated costs for equipment with a lead time of at least six months and services
         necessary to interconnect the large load customer.
         (A) An interconnecting DSP or an interconnecting TSP must apply any unused
                  study fee that the large load customer paid under an intermediate agreement
                  to satisfy the financial security for significant equipment or services under
                  this subsection.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 24 of 30

(B) After drawing down on financial security posted under an intermediate
         agreement for payment of the interconnection fee, an interconnecting DSP
         or an interconnecting TSP must apply the balance of any unused financial
         security that the large load customer posted under an intermediate
         agreement to satisfy the financial security for significant equipment or
         services under this subsection.

(C) The interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP may accept the
         following forms of financial security for significant equipment or services:

         (i) cash collateral;
         (ii) corporate or parental guaranty, only if the corporation or parent

                    corporation has a credit rating equivalent of BBB-/Baa3 or higher
                   from Standard & Poor' s or Moody's; or

       (iii) a letter of credit issued by a major U. S. commercial bank, or a U. S.

                  branch office of a major foreign commercial bank, with a credit
                   rating of at least "A-" by Standard & Poor's or "A3" by Moody's
                   Investor Service.
(D) If the large load customer provides a corporate or parental guaranty under
         this subsection, the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP may
         require the submission of financial records or statements to determine the
         customer's financial stability.
(IF,) Refund of financial security posted for significant equipment or services is
         subject to subsections (g) through (i) of this section.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 25 of 30

(9) Contribution in aid of construction (CUC). A large load customer must pay all
         direct interconnection costs through CIAC, with no standard or other allowance
         offered to offset the customer's CIAC payments. A large load customer must pay
         CIAC not later than the date that the interconnection agreement is executed. An
         interconnecting DSP and interconnecting TSP must not begin construction of
         facilities to interconnect a large load customer before a large load customer pays
         CIAC in an amount that is equal to the direct interconnection costs associated with
         the large load customer.
         (A) Direct interconnection costs include all costs associated with facilities built
                   to interconnect the large load customer to the existing ERCOT system,
                  including radial lines and substation upgrades necessary to interconnect the
                   new large load customer. CIAC must be paid in the form of a direct cash
                  payment.
         (B) An interconnecting DSP and an interconnecting TSP must not seek to
                  recover any large load-related direct interconnection costs, including any
                  interconnection allowance for large load customers, under any rates
                  regulated by the commission.
         (C) The CIAC must be trued-up to reflect the actual costs once the facilities are
                  completed, and a customer may receive a credit or surcharge on their bill,
                  as applicable, for the difference in actual costs relative to the estimate.

(10) Financial security for system upgrades. A large load customer must post
         financial security for system upgrades that are necessary to reliably serve the large
         load customer not later than the date that the interconnection agreement is executed.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 26 of 30

(A) The interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP may accept the
         following forms of financial security for system upgrades:

         (i) cash collateral;
         (ii) corporate or parental guaranty, only if the corporation or parent

                    corporation has a credit rating equivalent of BBB-/Baa3 or higher
                   from Standard & Poor' s or Moody's; or

       (iii) a letter of credit issued by a major U. S. commercial bank, or a U. S.

                  branch office of a major foreign commercial bank, with a credit
                   rating of at least "A-" by Standard & Poor's or "A3" by Moody's
                   Investor Service.
(B) If the large load customer provides a corporate or parental guaranty under
         this subsection, the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP may
         require the submission of financial records or statements to determine the
         customer's financial stability.
(C) Refund of financial security posted for system upgrades is subject to
         subsections (g) through (i) of this section.

(g) Withdrawal of all or a portion of requested peak demand or contracted peak demand.
         A large load customer may withdraw all or a portion of its requested peak demand or
         contracted peak demand for interconnection by submitting its request in writing to the
         interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP.
         (1) Not later than 14 days after receipt of a large load customer' s notice to withdraw
                  all or a portion of requested peak demand or contracted peak demand for
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 27 of 30

         interconnection, the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must notify
         ERCOT via a method prescribed by ERCOT.
(2) The interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must draw down on the large
         load customer' s financial security and apply the financial security to any
         outstanding amounts owed. Outstanding amounts owed include the following:
         (A) costs incurred by the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP to

                  fulfill the large load customer' s request for interconnection;
         (B) costs for equipment that the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting

                   TSP procured and that cannot be canceled with a full refund;
         (C) costs for construction that the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting

                   TSP started and that cannot be canceled with a full refund; and
         (D) costs for services that the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP

                  initiated and that cannot be canceled with a full refund.
(3) After applying the large load customer's financial security to any outstanding

         amounts owed, the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must refund
         20% of the balance to the large load customer within 60 days.
(4) After applying the financial security to any outstanding amounts owed and
         refunding 20% of the balance, the remaining 80% of the balance must be paid to
         the interconnecting TSP and applied by that TSP as an offset to the interconnecting
         TSP's rate base in the earlier of the interconnecting TSP's next interim rate
         proceeding or comprehensive rate proceeding.
(5) CIAC is not refundable.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 28 of 30

(6) ERCOT must reallocate contracted peak demand that is withdrawn by a large load
         customer.

(h) Non-utilized capacity.
         (1) Not later than 30 days after a large load customer fails, by 6 months, to satisfy a
                   milestone in its schedule for phased energization, the interconnecting DSP or the
                   interconnecting TSP must notify ERCOT of the large load customer' s non-utilized
                  capacity.
         (2) Within 60 days of providing notice to ERCOT under this subsection, the
                   interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must draw down on the large load
                  customer' s financial security and apply the financial security to any outstanding
                  amounts owed. Outstanding amounts owed include the following:
                   (A) costs incurred by the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP to
                           fulfill the large load customer' s request for interconnection;
                   (B) costs for equipment that the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting
                             TSP procured and that cannot be canceled with a full refund;
                   (C) costs for construction that the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting
                             TSP started and that cannot be canceled with a full refund; and
                   (D) costs for services that the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP
                           initiated and that cannot be canceled with a full refund.
         (3) Within 60 days of providing notice to ERCOT under this subsection and after
                  applying the large load customer' s financial security to any outstanding amounts
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 29 of 30

         owed, the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must refund 20% of the
         balance to the large load customer.
(4) After applying the financial security to any outstanding amounts owed and
         refunding 20% of the balance, the remaining 80% of the balance must be paid to
         the interconnecting TSP and applied by that TSP as an offset to the interconnecting
         TSP' s rate base in the earlier of the interconnecting TSP's next interim rate
         proceeding or comprehensive rate proceeding.
(5) CIAC is not refundable.
(6) ERCOT must reallocate non-utilized capacity.

(i) Terms for refund of financial security for a large load customer that energizes. An
         interconnecting DSP or an interconnecting TSP must draw down on the large load
         customer's financial security and apply the financial security to any outstanding amounts
         owed for costs incurred by the interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP to fulfill
         the large load customer' s request for interconnection of the contracted peak demand.
         (1) After applying financial security to any outstanding amounts owed, the
                   interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must refund 20% of the remaining
                  balance when the large load customer energizes and ratably as the large load
                  customer meets the milestones identified in the customer' s schedule for phased
                  energization of its contracted peak demand.
         (2) The interconnecting DSP or the interconnecting TSP must refund any remaining
                  balance when the large load customer sustains operations for five years at the
                  customer's contracted peak demand.
Project No. 58481  Proposal for Publication  Page 30 of 30

This agency hereby certifies that the proposal has been reviewed by legal counsel and found to
be within the agency's legal authority to adopt.

ISSUED IN AUSTIN, TEXAS ON THE 12TH DAY OF MARCH 2026 BY THE
                     PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION OF TEXAS
                                         KATELYN LEWIS
